clients/iotclient/documentation/iot_server_arguments.rst, before:

.. _starting_webserver:

***********************
Starting the web server
***********************

The packages listened on :code:`requirements.txt` file must be installed before running the server. To avoid conflicts with other versions of the packages existing on the host machine, is recommended to create a Python virtual environment for the server. `About Python virtual environments <http://docs.python-guide.org/en/latest/dev/virtualenvs/>`_.

The server starts as a regular Python program invoking the :code:`main.py` file, however there are several arguments that can be passed to change its behavior.

::

    python main.py [arguments]

.. _arguments:

Arguments
=========

The possible arguments for the web server are listed bellow.

Paths
-----

.. important:: Make sure the current user has permissions on the locations provided.

**-f - -filesystem**

Set the filesystem directory where the baskets will be created. By default in UNIX systems is on :code:`/etc/iotserver` directory, while on Windows is on the directory where the :code:`main.py` script was invoked. While bootstrapping the web server, a :code:`baskets` directory is created.

**-l  - -log**

Location of logfile. On the logfile is reported when streams are created or removed, when tuples are inserted and when the baskets are flushed. By default in UNIX systems is :code:`/var/log/iot/iotserver.log`, while on Windows is the :code:`iotserver.log` on the directory where the :code:`main.py` script was called.

Host Identifier
---------------

If the *identifier* parameter is provided, an extra column on streams will be added with a custom name of the host for later identification.

**-i  - -identifier**

Use a host identifier for every new stream.

**-n  - -name**

Host identifier name. By default is the host's MAC address.

Web Server Listening
--------------------

For security purposes, two web servers are created by the application. On the administration server it's present operations to create and delete streams, while on application server the insert operations are present instead. The administration server should be listening on the host only, while the application server should be listening to all interfaces.

**-ih  - -ihost**

Listening host of the application (IOT) server. By default is on :code:`0.0.0.0`.

**-ip  - -iport**

Listening port of the application (IOT) server. By default is on port :code:`8000`.

**-ah  - -ahost**

Listening host of the administration server. By default is on :code:`127.0.0.1`.

**-ap  - -aport**

Listening port of the administration server. By default is on port :code:`8001`.

Database Connection
-------------------

Credentials for the MAPI connection to MonetDB database.

.. note:: The user's password will be prompted during the initialization of the server.

**-d  - -host**

Listening host of MonetDB database. By default is on :code:`127.0.0.1`.

**-d  - -port**

Listening port of MonetDB database. By default is on port :code:`50000`.

**-u  - -user**

Name of the user to authenticate. By default is user :code:`monetdb`.

**-d  - -database**

Name of database to use. By default is :code:`iotdb` database.

Help
----

**-?  - -help**

Display help.

Commit message:

Finished stream creation through webserver with MonetDB, now only the stream polling is remaining

clients/iotclient/documentation/iot_server_arguments.rst, after:

.. _starting_webserver:

***********************
Starting the web server
***********************

The packages listened on :code:`requirements.txt` file must be installed before running the server. To avoid conflicts with other versions of the packages existing on the host machine, is recommended to create a Python virtual environment for the server. `About Python virtual environments <http://docs.python-guide.org/en/latest/dev/virtualenvs/>`_.

The server starts as a regular Python program invoking the :code:`main.py` file, however there are several arguments that can be passed to change its behavior.

::

    python main.py [arguments]

.. _arguments:

Arguments
=========

The possible arguments for the web server are listed bellow.

Paths
-----

.. important:: Make sure the current user has permissions on the locations provided.

**-f - -filesystem**

Set the filesystem directory where the baskets will be created. By default in UNIX systems is on :code:`/etc/iotserver` directory, while on Windows is on the directory where the :code:`main.py` script was invoked. While bootstrapping the web server, a :code:`baskets` directory is created.

**-l  - -log**

Location of logfile. On the logfile is reported when streams are created or removed, when tuples are inserted and when the baskets are flushed. By default in UNIX systems is :code:`/var/log/iot/iotserver.log`, while on Windows is the :code:`iotserver.log` on the directory where the :code:`main.py` script was called.

Web Server Behavior
-------------------

If a stream is created with a hostname, an extra column on streams will be added with a custom name of the host for later identification.

**-n  - -name**

Host identifier name. By default is the host's MAC address.

**-po  - -polling**

Set the polling interval in seconds to MonetDB database for streams updates. By default is :code:`60` seconds.

Web Server Listening
--------------------

For security purposes, two web servers are created by the application. On the administration server it's present operations to create and delete streams, while on application server the insert operations are present instead. The administration server should be listening on the host only, while the application server should be listening to all interfaces.

**-ih  - -ihost**

Listening host of the application (IOT) server. By default is on :code:`0.0.0.0`.

**-ip  - -iport**

Listening port of the application (IOT) server. By default is on port :code:`8000`.

**-ah  - -ahost**

Listening host of the administration server. By default is on :code:`127.0.0.1`.

**-ap  - -aport**

Listening port of the administration server. By default is on port :code:`8001`.

Database Connection
-------------------

Credentials for the MAPI connection to the MonetDB database.

.. note:: The user's password will be prompted during the initialization of the server.

**-d  - -host**

Listening host of MonetDB database. By default is on :code:`127.0.0.1`.

**-d  - -port**

Listening port of MonetDB database. By default is on port :code:`50000`.

**-u  - -user**

Name of the user to authenticate. By default is user :code:`monetdb`.

**-d  - -database**

Name of database to use. By default is :code:`iotdb` database.

Help
----

**-?  - -help**

Display help.
